# Chord Distributed Hash Table

Implementation of the basic functions of the Chord distributed hash table (DHT)

Programming Language - Python3<br>
Completion status - Implemented Completely

**Commands** to execute assignment - 

* Include required IP address and port in **nodes.txt** in the format - **\<ip-address>:\<port>**
* Start server using make command - **#make startServer port=\<port>** for ip addresses mentioned in nodes.txt
* Setup finger table using command - **make init**
* Execute client using command - **make startClient serverIP=\<server ip address> port=\<port>**


##### Extention to Server-side methods stub generated by Thrift
6 methods are implemented on server side in PythonServer.py

**writeFile() -**<br>
Given a filename and contents, function writes file to server <br>
Meta-information, stored at the server side is as follows -
* File name
* Version
* File content
* File content hash (SHA-256 hash of the file content)
        
Data stucture used - Dictionary -<br>
* key - hash of file name
* value - tuple of meta information

**readFile() -**<br>
File with a given name exists on the server, both the contents and meta-information should be returned.<br>
A SystemException is thrown in below cases - <br>
* If File not own by Server i.e. the server is not the file’s successor
* If File Not Found on Server

**setFingertable()**<br>
Sets the current node’s fingertable to the fingertable provided in the argument of the function
This will be called by init program which will return finger_table

**findSucc()**<br>
Given an identifier in the DHT’s key space, returns the DHT node that owns the id.<br>
This function is implemented in two parts:
* The function findPred is invoked to discover the DHT node that precedes the given id
* The function getNodeSucc is invoked to find the successor of this predecessor node

**findPred()**<br>
Given an identifier in the DHT’s key space, this function returns the DHT node that immediately precedes the id.<br>
This preceeding node is the first node in the counter-clockwise direction in the Chord key space.<br>
A SystemException is thrown if no fingertable exists for the current node.<br>

**getNodeSucc()**<br>
Returns the closest DHT node that follows the current node in the Chord key space.<br>
It simply returns the node’s first fingertable entry.<br>
A SystemException should be thrown if no fingertable exists for the current node.<br>

**References**<br>
[1] Ion Stoica, Robert Morris, David Karger, M. Frans Kaashoek, and Hari Balakrishnan. Chord: A Scalable Peer-
to-peer Lookup Service for Internet Applications. In Proceedings of the ACM SIGCOMM ’01 Conference, San
Diego, California, August 2001.

